>> [BACKGROUND MUSIC] And
I think many people today
don't know what to
believe anymore.
>> People are basically going
keep on to help uncover what
really happened.
>> I felt like something
was watching me.
>> We weren't given
all the information.
We weren't told
the entire story.
>> NARRATOR: And now the host
of the nationally syndicated
"Coast to Coast AM" and Gaiam
TV bring you "Beyond Belief"
with George Noory.
>> GEORGE NOORY: Well,
welcome to "Beyond Belief."
You know, since I was a little
boy I was just frightened
by stories of witches.
As a matter of fact, when I
watched "The Wizard of Oz"
and saw the Wicked Witch, it
just scared the heck out of me.
Well, you're going to be
someone in a moment who
is not the stereotypical witch.
She's an author, actress, rock
musician, pilot, sky jumper,
and a witch.
Welcome Fiona Horne.
Fiona.
[APPLAUSE]
>> FIONA HORNE: Hey.
>> NOORY: Hey, how are you?
>> HORNE: George, I'm good.
Good to see you.
>> NOORY: You can cast
a spell on me anytime.
>> HORNE: Oh, God bless.
Goddess bless, even.
>> NOORY: What's new?
>> HORNE: I'm, well, I'm good.
I've got-- I'm busy,
I've got books out.
I've got things going on.
I'm flying planes
instead of broomsticks
now, which is a lot
more comfortable.
A bit more complicated.
A plane has a few
more things you've
got to do on it, rather
than a broomstick.
>> NOORY: I actually thought
you were going to fly
in on a broom.
Why do people think
that about witches?
>> HORNE: Oh, I think
there's lot of stereotypes,
and lots of misconceptions
about witches.
But a lot it's really good fun.
I mean, there's fun-- I mean,
there's that "Wizard of Oz"
movie out now, with that
awesome poster of the witch,
and everything, you know.
I love the entertainment
aspect of witches
and that sort of
imagery of them.
But if you approach witchcraft
as a modern spiritual path,
well then, it's very different.
And it's not about warts on your
noses and bats and craziness.
It's a very rewarding
spiritual path.
It really is enhancing
a lot of people's lives
right now-- men and women.
>> NOORY: I don't see
any warts on your nose.
>> HORNE: No,
there was a pimple,
but Susan took care of
that in the makeup room.
>> NOORY: I love it.
>> HORNE: So Susan's awesome.
>> NOORY: How did you get
interested in witchcraft?
I mean, you weren't
born a witch, were you?
>> HORNE: It's funny, that's
the very first line in the first
book I wrote about witchcraft.
I say, some say you
have to be born a witch,
but I actually think
you can become one.
All you need is a
passion for nature,
and an understanding
that nature is sacred,
and we're part of an amazing
biological world that we
can honor and consider
empowering in our lives.
And also understanding
that there
can be a goddess
as well as a god.
There's a dualistic
principle of divinity.
And you know, a little-- a
healthy interest in spells
and rituals doesn't
hurt, you know,
because that's
part of what we do.
And then there's also
aspects of divination.
Like I read tarot cards.
I've read cards for over a
quarter of a century now.
I've got the same deck.
I still use it.
But I think, when you say,
how did I sort of get into it,
I was a teenager growing up in
a Catholic environment, very
strict Catholic environment.
And I looked for alternatives.
And I wanted to
maybe find out what
came before there were
Catholics in the world.
And that's where I
stumbled upon paganism
and the spiritual
practices of the Celts
and the Teutonic tribes
of northern Europe.
And it all came from there.
>> NOORY: Why do people
think, if you're witch,
you believe in Satan?
You're a devil worshiper?
They really don't
understand the difference.
>> HORNE: Well, I think people
are increasingly understanding
the difference, because putting
it really simplistically,
if you are going to believe
in the devil and Satan,
then you've got to be Christian.
And we're not.
So that takes care of that.
>> NOORY: Good.
>> HORNE: It doesn't
have-- I mean,
I think the idea of
paganism being that it was
pre-Christian, when the
Christian faith established
itself as a dominant, I guess,
religious mindset in the world,
particularly the Western world,
then what came before it had
to be evil and debased.
And so that sort of threw
paganism into that bracket.
And then we even have an
image of a god concept.
I call it that,
because the way I
experienced the craft
is the god/goddess.
However you kind of believe
it manifests and speaks
most potently to
you in your life.
But we have the pagan god,
Lord of the Forest, Pan.
He's a horned god.
He's got horns.
And half of his
body is an animal.
And it's more
metaphorical than literal.
But that's where it was kind
of-- that image of Satan
came from that image
of the horned god that
came before Christianity.
So I think it's all
about education.
I feel privileged that I've been
able to write a number of books
about the craft over
the last 20 years.
Actually, I've been
published since 1997.
So it's been awhile.
And having that
opportunity to dispel
those negative
stereotypes and let people
know that we're not
Satanists riding around
on broomsticks at all, really.
>> NOORY: No.
There's a big difference.
>> HORNE: Not at all.
>> NOORY: Big difference.
I know.
I'm a believer in God, Fiona.
I don't know what
the concept is yet.
I don't believe there's a little
man up there on a white cloud
doing whatever he does.
But there's something
in the universe
that controls our destiny.
There's no doubt
about it in my mind.
Are you a believer like that?
Is that a little bit
of witchcraft is?
>> HORNE: I'm so glad you
have asked me this question.
Being that I've been
out of the broom closet,
shall we say, in the public
eye, talking about witchcraft
for a long time, I used to
call myself an atheist witch.
I used to say that gods and
goddesses are projections
of our consciousness,
and we don't
have to consider them
separate from ourselves.
They are an expression
of our inner divinity.
And in order to understand
the concept of divinity,
we kind of create these
exterior models of it.
But really, it comes
from within us.
But I have changed my mind.
Which is a witch's prerogative.
It's anyone's prerogative.
I've had some
really-- I've always
had profound
spiritual experiences.
I'm a very spiritual person.
I'm not religious, but
I am very spiritual.
And I've experienced
extraordinary paranormal
phenomenon, and things
otherworldly an outside
of our normal realms of the five
or six senses, whatever it is.
I just in recent,
in the last year,
really, have come to a
beautiful, peaceful acceptance
that there is something bigger
than you, bigger than me,
bigger than all of
us put together, that
exists independently of us,
and of our conception of it
and our understanding of it.
And it's a wise, loving,
benevolent presence.
And I feel my life is
incredibly enriched from this,
because from understanding
this, and just letting it be.
Like I was actually on a beach,
and I used the g-o-d word.
I didn't say goddess, I
didn't put-- I just said god.
I said, God, what would
happen if I stopped
resisting you and
denying that you exist?
And as clear as day, a voice
presented itself in my head
and said, well, we get to work.
And I had been thinking at the
time about the changes that
were going on in my life,
big personal changes.
Lots of stuff going on.
And I had been thinking
about, how do I move forward?
And what happens from here?
And I felt so empty and lost.
And getting to work,
well, work was good.
Work with something
that I could feel
passionate and motivated about.
And it was just a
remarkable moment
of connection and communion
with something that was bigger
and that cared.
And you know, maybe people
in the audience and people
watching at home have
experienced moments like that.
I've had moments,
but I've always
just felt like, well,
the buck stops with me.
If everything's
wrong in the world,
that's because I
did something wrong.
And I've got to fix it.
And I was very hard on myself.
And it was nice to just
feel that God has my back.
And I'm OK.
And everything's OK.
And stuff happens in life.
You know, the sun
rises, it sets.
There are cycles everywhere.
There's darkness, there's light.
But I didn't have to feel so
very alone in all of that.
And it was lovely.
So, yes, I believe in God, too.
>> NOORY: Fiona, Hollywood,
like the "Wizard of Oz"
and so many other types of
movies and television shows,
has portrayed witches
to be so darn evil.
>> HORNE: There's
some good ones, too.
>> NOORY: And so ugly
and everything else.
Have they changed the perception
of people for their belief
system of what a witch could be?
>> HORNE: It's an interesting
question, because, you know,
I work in TV, and I put shows
together that present witches
in a reality concept.
And we try to sort of,
again, present-- I mean,
it's-- people do bad things.
Not necessarily witches.
Christians can do bad things.
Muslims going do bad things.
Jews can do bad things.
We can also, all of
us, can do good things.
People do bad things.
The entertainment
stereotype of what
a witch is, it's meant to
excite and tantalize and thrill
and scare and all those things.
I mean, there's good
witches portrayed, too.
But as a society,
we tend to be fed
this massive diet of
destruction, war, fear.
And the producers
and people in power
think that that sells more,
and so they emphasize that.
But I think, you know, that's
why something like Gaiam TV is
so exciting and beautiful,
because it's actually showing--
well, it's showing--
>> NOORY: It's enlightening.
>> HORNE: Yeah,
it's enlightening.
It's showing the networks that
people actually don't always
want to watch destructive,
negative, crap on TV,
or on the movie screens.
But you know, look, I'm a
witch but I like a good scare
as much as anyone.
So I'll watch a spooky
witch, for sure.
>> NOORY: So I mean, what
do you do for Halloween?
Do you dress up as a witch?
>> HORNE: I don't have
to, I'm already a witch.
I just get out the house in
my pajamas and go the day.
It's easy.
No, on Halloween, well, it's
funny you bring that one up,
because there are special
sacred days in witchcraft.
And there's eight of them.
An they're called sabbats.
There's the lessor
ones the greater ones.
They're spaced about six
to seven weeks apart.
Halloween, as it's
commercialized,
is actually Samhain for us.
And in the northern
hemisphere it's October 31st,
and in the southern
hemisphere, it's
the opposite time of the year.
Because really
what's important is,
we're acknowledging that time
of we're moving into winter,
we're moving into the
dark sleep of earth.
And there's a whole story that
goes along with it, with gods
and goddesses and
what's going on.
But in a nut shell, it's a
time to consider the role
that death plays in life.
A time to honor the dead.
And we consider that
it's a great time
to communicate with the dead.
And receive messages
from beyond.
And so it's a very special
time of the year for us.
We would even consider
it our New Year,
because it is the
ultimate end of the year.
And at every ending
is another beginning.
And so, you know, it's fun
to see all the Halloween
kind of stuff going on.
But to us, it's a very
sacred spiritual time.
So we'll always have
our moment where
we celebrate with
like-minded people
in a soulful and spiritual way.
And then we go out
to all the Halloween
parades and trick-or-treat
and have fun.
>> NOORY: Is there a coven?
Is there a witches
coven out there?
>> HORNE: A witches coven.
There's 100 million
witches covens.
>> NOORY: Oh, there are?
And you all get together?
>> HORNE: Oh,
well, that depends.
I mean, there's
different groups.
It's like, it's not too
dissimilar to any kind
of construct where it might
be being brought up Catholic
there were different
churches we could go to,
there was different
meetings and things.
People have Bible study groups.
All sorts of stuff like that.
It's not too dissimilar.
It's just groups of us
that will gather together
to practice ritual, or to
learn, or to share knowledge.
I had a coven in Los
Angeles for a few years.
One of my books,
actually, "LA Witch"
talked about putting
that coven together
and how to run a coven.
And what you could hope
to achieve having one.
But essentially, it's gathering
together to, you know,
like I said, practice your
magic and do spiritual work that
helps, heals, and empowers
people and yourselves and all
that good stuff.
>> NOORY: Do you have
leaders of the coven?
>> HORNE: You generally
have someone that, yeah,
there's someone that's kind
of keeping it together.
But the coven I had, the
leadership was shared.
We, each of us, took a turn at
kind of running the business.
So, you know,
taking a lead in it.
But it depends on the structure.
Like if there's a ritual
way you're casting circle,
and you might have
someone in a role that's
in charge of doing that.
But then someone
else might be taking
care of the cakes and ale,
which is traditionally food
and drink that
you have after you
do ritual work, to
ground your energy.
>> NOORY: All right.
Well, let's take some
questions for Fiona--
the good witch--
from the audience.
Just raise your hand.
And I'll just pick
you, and point to you.
Who has got a question
for the witch?
>> AUDIENCE: I was wondering,
what is the most concrete spell
outcome you've ever had, that
you could actually see or could
tell really occurred?
>> HORNE: That's
a great question.
The most concrete spell outcome.
People have asked, you know,
what's your favorite spell.
And I go, oh my life.
It's a work of
magic in progress.
And you have that big
general kind of a thing.
Really specific stuff.
It was a spell I helped
another girl with.
And it was called the hurry
up and marry me spell.
And we had a bit
of fun creating it.
It involved a clock and
some ivy and some herbs,
like the herbs that speed
up things, like cayenne
pepper, and hot spicy stuff.
And she had been perpetually
engaged for like seven years.
And we were like, oh, let's
get this-- he kept saying he
wanted to marry her.
Well, it worked.
And he did propose.
And we had given
it a time frame.
We had done the spell in the
new moon, to sort of avail
ourselves of the building,
growing, waxing energy.
And then on the full moon, it
was literally on the full moon,
he popped the question with
a reasonably nice ring.
And that was done.
So that was something
that was really tangible.
And I want to sort to
add, when you do spells,
because that's
such a tantalizing
aspect of witchcraft.
Oh, I can make people do things.
And there's actually three
laws, very important.
Do what you want but
don't hurt anyone.
Do what you want
but don't interview
with another person's free will.
That's very important.
And as you send out,
so returns threefold.
So she and I had a bit
of a discussion about,
are we inferring
with his free will?
You know, are we kind of
tricking things up, here?
And then we decided that
the odds were overwhelmingly
in favor, when you've been
engaged for like seven
years, that it's not
unreasonable to ask
your fiance, mate, can we
just get business done?
And they're very happy.
They're still married.
So it's all good.
>> NOORY: With these
spells that you cast,
do you need a little piece
of hair from somebody,
or anything like that?
>> HORNE: Well, you can do that.
Actually, in my book, the
latest book that I've written,
it's a work of
young adult fiction.
I had a lot of fun.
It was my first book of fiction.
I had a lot of fun
with creating spells
that were a bit more
dramatic and intense.
But I was thinking, oh,
I have to balance them
with the ethical
aspect of it, even
though this is the
world of fiction.
So instead of hair,
hair and blood,
she got sand from a footprint
that a person had made.
>> NOORY: Interesting.
>> HORNE: Yeah, but generally,
when people talk about using
body parts in spells, like hair,
or nails, or any of that stuff,
and people go, oh, I'm worried
some witch is going to sneak
into the bathroom and take the
hair off my brush and do some
spell with it.
The whole purpose of that
is the genetic material,
like the stuff of
their physical nature.
Again, that lends
itself to thinking,
well, are we interfering
with free will,
if we're doing things like that?
So I mean, look.
There's always going to
be people that break laws.
But the laws of
witchcraft are there
to sort of keep the collective
consciousness pure, to as much
of a degree as it can be.
Because when, like
anything in life,
if you do something from a
place of insecurity, fear,
and thinking, I can't have
it unless I manipulate.
Then you're not
ever really going
to have that
intrinsic power that
allows you to
experience a really
full and happy
and abundant life.
Whether, you know, just
without needing props of it.
Like without needing money,
without needing anything,
you can have a life that
feels fulfilling and peaceful
and joyous.
And it's full of love.
And you can
experience that love.
If you're making decisions
not from a place of fear,
insecurity, lack, and
thinking that-- or even
jealousy-- so I guess that's,
when I'm talking to people
about casting spells, I
always say, have a really good
think about why you
want to do this.
Because for you have the power
to really transform your life,
you can't be in
this tiny little,
[GASP] insecure
place full of fear.
And [CHATTERING].
You've got to be relaxed.
And you got to let
this energy flow.
There's tons of
energy in the world.
>> NOORY: Do that again.
[CHATTERING]
>> HORNE: But there's tons
of energy in the world.
And you can avail yourself
of it, if you open up to it.
And that's really where,
over a quarter of a century,
I've been sort of actively
talking and promoting
this stuff, that's what works.
The stuff that's angry
and negative doesn't work.
It just kind of implodes,
or it backfires.
>> NOORY: All right.
Let's take some more
questions for Fiona.
There you go, sir.
>> AUDIENCE: Yeah, a couple
of questions, actually.
First of all, do you
need props, such as
a long pointed black
hat, candles, things?
And have you ever been
said, hey, you're wrong.
You need to be converted?
Or something of that nature?
>> HORNE: OK.
Well, what was the first one?
>> NOORY: Candles,
candles and things.
>> HORNE: The candles and props.
OK.
Yes, we definitely
can use and do
use candles, incense, different
herbs, crystals, objects,
talismans, items.
Putting it simply,
the four elements
that we consider sacred
air, earth, fire, and water
can be represented in a sacred
space, of just in everyday life
with certain items.
So fire is obviously a candle.
Air can be incense, or a feather
if you're not burning anything.
Earth can be crystals, or
anything of the earth, or even
salt, or brass, even
a brass pentacle.
And water is obviously water.
And you can sometimes,
that can just
be like having a vase
with a flower in it,
and just acknowledging that
that's the element of water.
And you have this kind
altar space in the house
that no one knows
is really an alter.
You know, a feather, a flower
in a vase, and a crystal,
and a little candle.
There's an alter right there.
So we do use props, because
we believe that they are not
only tools to trigger
our subconscious,
but because they embody
these sacred elements,
they are like magnets that
can kind of work for us
and draw our attention
to us, or to take us
to where our goal is.
So yeah.
Props, lots of things.
That's fun.
It's creative.
That's what I really
love about witchcraft,
that it's creative
and it's tactile.
It can be sensual.
If you're using beautiful
scented incenses
and gorgeous candles, it
can be a very evocative,
beautiful thing that
you're a part of.
Running around naked?
Yes.
Actually in my
first book, I talked
about an all women's
gathering called We Moonies.
He's giving me the thumbs up.
>> NOORY: Yeah.
Where do you run around?
>> HORNE: Well, we consider
sky clad, the term sky clad,
to be sacred, clad in skin.
It's clad in the sky.
It's like, you
know, if God meant
us to be naked we would
have been born that way.
We were.
So obviously it's
not a bad thing.
We don't consider that the body
has things that are shameful
and need to be hidden.
But that being said, it's
everyone's individual choice.
There's no mandatory thing.
If someone came
up to me and said,
oh, I'm a really
powerful witch and you
got to get naked with me
in this circle of candles,
I would run the other direction.
That's like a wanker not a
witch, as far as I'm concerned.
Anyway, so yeah, always it's
your own personal comforts.
And especially younger people
who are drawn to the craft.
I did write a book for
teenagers, a few years back.
And it's about exercising
ethical, moral responsibility,
but also really
understanding that there's
no shame in our bodies.
It's sacred.
They're blessed, they
procreate, they're
a big part of why
we're here, you know?
So to celebrate them
is a healthier thing.
And so certainly
gathering sky clad,
it can be done by witches,
consenting witches.
And it's a beautiful,
wonderful, and rewarding thing.
And what was a last one again?
>> NOORY: Well, have you ever
been chased by the church,
or anybody like that?
>> HORNE: Well, like,
I remember once,
I was doing a book launch.
And it was actually
in Australia.
I was trying to remember if
it was Australia or here.
Because I live in America.
I've lived here for
like 12, 13 years now.
But I go back to
Australia periodically.
I remember doing a book launch,
turning up at this event.
And there was this truck, and
this big cross, a wooden cross.
And it was burning.
And I thought, oh, goodness.
All of this.
They went to all this
trouble just for me.
I felt rather special
that they all turned
up and were chanting.
And they had placards.
And burn the witch.
And it was really extraordinary.
>> NOORY: Burn the witch?
>> HORNE: Yeah, I thought, god,
I wish I had a reality TV show
happening now.
This is like, wow.
Interestingly enough, after
I had a chat with them,
they all turned out to
be perfectly pleasant.
And it was just what
they felt they had to do.
I don't know, I mean,
again, it's education
and it's awareness.
>> NOORY: Well, you have
a different way about you.
You make people
feel comfortable.
>> HORNE: Well, thank you.
I'd like to hope I do.
>> NOORY: You don't come
across as being evil, at all.
Because you're not.
I've known you for years.
>> HORNE: You have, yeah.
>> NOORY: Are there
some people, though,
who are witches who you
kind of wish they weren't?
>> HORNE: Well, it's not
my business to judge.
But, yeah, there's
definitely people out there
that you just think, God,
they're whack jobs not witches,
you know?
But you know, like
anything, it can only
take one bad egg to kind of
stink out the room, you know?
>> NOORY: Yeah, that's true.
>> HORNE: So I just think,
all I can do is balance
the negativity by trying to
continue to live a good life.
When I say good, I
mean good in the sense
of responsible, ethical,
tread lightly on the earth,
honor others.
We don't all have
to be the same.
I mean, in fact, our survival
depends on our diversity.
I had a remarkable
meditation once, with that.
I was talking to God, literally.
This god energy, again.
And he said to me--
it was a he, he
was a masculine presence
in the meditation--
and he said, Fiona,
look at all the trees
in the garden around you.
I was meditating in the garden.
And I noticed there were all
different types of trees.
There was a willow tree,
an oak tree, a gum tree.
And I said I understand that.
And he said, do you see
how they're the same,
they're a tree, but
they're all different.
And I said, yes,
I understand that.
And he said, so, he
said, their survival
depends on their diversity.
And I said, I understand that.
And he said, so it
is with my love.
My survival depends
on the diversity
of the love you give me.
So every instrument, or every
spiritual path, every religion,
is like an instrument
in an orchestra.
And when they're played
together it's a symphony.
A symphony of the soul and that
is my voice, the voice of God.
And so in that moment,
I realized, I thought,
we all have a place to,
whatever religion or spiritual
path we are, to be
that instrument.
We play our instrument, and
then we give God a voice.
So I don't judge,
even within the craft.
Yeah, there's some
wacky ones out there.
And there are aspects to the--
>> NOORY: There are
wacky ones in everything.
>> HORNE: In everything.
And there are aspects to the
craft that can appear darker.
Like Samhain, we were
talking about Halloween.
Yes, we do have a skull.
Usually it's not a real one.
But sometimes it can be.
>> NOORY: Hey, some of our
politicians have skulls.
>> HORNE: Well, there you go.
So, you know, I mean,
there's always that imagery.
>> NOORY: You fly.
You fly planes.
>> HORNE: Yes.
And I jump out of them.
>> NOORY: Why don't
you just use the broom?
>> HORNE: Because, well, a
plane is more comfortable.
Brooms get a bit uncomfortable
after half an hour.
>> NOORY: I guess they would be.
>> HORNE: But you
can sit side saddle,
it's a bit more comfortable.
No.
Seriously, I took up
flying planes about five
or six years ago.
Around the same time
I started skydiving.
I've always loved aviation.
And my brain is not wired for
math and that kind of thing,
and machines.
It's more creative.
So it's been a real challenge
to become a heavy machinery
operator, basically, and
be able to fly a plane.
A lot of stuff to remember.
But I love it.
And it's a beautiful world.
I love the, how
would I say this?
The history of, and the
"herstory" even, of aviation.
And just it's such a
grand human endeavor.
And I know we're using avgas.
And I'm all about solar power.
There's this solar plane
they're flying from,
it's called Solarimpulse.
Do check it out.
>> NOORY: A solar plane?
>> HORNE: Yeah, a solar plane
they're flying across America.
It's a Swedish couple.
Like, they've got two
guys that have done it.
You should have
them on the show.
It would be amazing
to talk about.
But yeah, it's
called Solarimpulse.
And they've got a plane.
It's got solar
panels on the wings.
And it looks like a
massive glider, right now.
But it's the beginning of
the next wave of aviation.
We will have planes that
can be powered by the sun.
At the moment, we're trying
rechargeable batteries.
But they're too heavy and
they don't make sense.
>> NOORY: Let's not fly at
night with that plane, huh?
>> HORNE: Well,
you can, actually.
It stores power.
That's a really good point.
That's exactly what
my dad said to me.
He said, oh, but, you
can't fly it at night.
Well, it stores
power during the day.
And you gauge how far you can
go by the stored solar energy.
>> NOORY: As you would
fuel in your wings.
>> HORNE: Yeah.
But even as a pilot of a good
old Tailgaters and Cessna 180s,
and all that kind
of stuff, I try
to still tread
lightly on the earth.
So yes, I'm using avgas,
and all that kind of stuff.
So I do support
environmental initiatives.
I recycle.
I don't buy plastic
bottles of water.
I refill things.
And where I can, I
make a difference.
But yes, I do buy avgas.
So I am contributing
to carbon emissions.
>> NOORY: You are a sky jumper.
>> HORNE: Skydiver, yes.
>> NOORY: And I remember one
day you broke your ankle?
>> HORNE: I did.
Last time I was on your show.
>> NOORY: What happened?
>> HORNE: Well, it wasn't
very exciting or interesting.
I was jumping in Arizona, and
it was a regular old landing,
I just, you know.
flared.
And my foot went, it could have
happened wearing these shoes
if I tripped off the
corner of the stage, here.
But there was a gopher hole.
And my foot went in it and it
just went, and snapped off.
And I was like, oh gosh,
that was embarrassing.
It was my first jump at
this particular new drop
zone I was jumping at.
So I picked up my canopy, and I
was like walking off thinking,
oh, I don't want people
to think I'm a goose.
I didn't actually fall over.
I just, it was like
genuflecting, actually.
I dropped to one knee, stood
up and went, oh, please
feel normal in a minute.
Oh, it's not feeling normal.
Oh, it's burning.
Oh, no.
OK.
Don't look like an
idiot, walk back.
And I got to the hanger, and I
lay out my canopy to pack it.
And, just, I got to sit down.
And I got my shoe off.
My sole of my foot had
already gone black.
And yeah, that gnarly.
But it's back on
now, held with pins.
I'm like the bionic woman.
>> NOORY: Oh, there's
pins in there?
OK.
>> HORNE: Oh, yeah.
I snapped my foot off.
>> NOORY: Do they go off when
you go through an airport.
>> HORNE: Uh, they wanted to
pat me down the other day,
and then the lady said, oh,
it was randomly selected.
And I was like, oh, whatever.
I don't think my ankle goes off.
But, yeah, I've got
a lot of metal in it.
But I'm jumping again.
I mean, I was jumping
again within six months.
I love it.
And I'm proud to say, I
actuallly got a world record.
>> NOORY: Do you really?
>> HORNE: Yes, I did.
I got a world record,
which was nothing I ever
thought I could ever achieve in
skydiving or anything, really.
But it was all of
us were over 40.
And it was a head
down formation,
of 13-way head down formation
in-- we were up in Oregon.
And yeah.
Head down is really
a hard way to fly.
You often see people jumping
on their bellies, you know?
>> NOORY: With their hands out.
>> HORNE: The classic
belly thing, yeah.
But when you start to free
fly, you're stick flying,
you're doing other positions.
And then your head down,
that's the fastest.
And its most awkward, because
you're literally upside down
on your head.
>> NOORY: Can you feel
speed when you doing that?
>> HORNE: Oh, yeah.
You're going like 180 miles
an hour when you're head down.
So we flew into a
formation of 13,
that's was predetermined
on the ground.
We had to fill in slots,
slot specific, as you say.
A photograph had to be taken.
Grips had to be shown.
And we actually
flew the formation
for about 12 seconds, which
is a long time in skydiving,
because you free fall.
Once you're out of the
plane, at that speed,
it's usually only
about 52 to 54 seconds.
And we were breaking
off a little high
to give us room to open and
separate without banging
into each other under canopy.
So yeah, we achieved the record.
And all of us were over 40.
That was what the caveat was.
Yeah. so we were really excited.
>> NOORY: Is it noisy
when you're doing that?
Can you hear the wind?
>> HORNE: Oh, yeah.
I wear a full faced helmet now,
but yeah, the noise is there.
That's why movies
like "Point Break"
is so funny, when they have
the conversation going on.
And the free fall is
like 2 and 1/2 minutes.
You're like, yeah, this
isn't how it really is.
But you can sometimes
yell at each other,
just as you're coming out of the
plane and you're on the heal,
you can kind of hear things.
But generally, we just
nod and smile a lot.
And gesture with hands.
And that's how you
communicate in the sky.
>> NOORY: You're a pretty
accomplished musician.
You've been a singer.
Do you still do some of that?
>> HORNE: I do
enjoy singing still.
My band, actually, last year,
we had a big career in Australia
in the '90s, which
was a lot of fun.
And it kind of launched my work
in the entertainment industry.
We did a 15 year reunion
tour last year in Australia.
>> NOORY: Is that Def X?
>> HORNE: Def FX.
Yeah.
It sold out.
Great venues, great,
just the people, the fans
came out to see us again.
And were like,
back in the day, we
were electronica
before electronica.
So we had like really heavy
guitars and dance beats.
And this was in the early '90s.
So we had mosh pits and stage
diving and all that craziness.
And I was cracking jokes
last year in interviews.
I was like, yeah, we
got these mosh pits,
but now it's all 40
somethings going,
ow, don't tread on my foot.
Ow, you're hurting me.
Stop banging into me.
Ow.
So back in the day, everyone
was just slamming it up.
And I did too.
My two front teeth
are pretty much fake,
because I left in someone's
head when I stage-dived.
But I stage-dived
again last year.
I was like, why not?
I mean, you know.
>> NOORY: Jump right in.
>> HORNE: It was fun.
We're touring again this year,
because the fans want it.
>> NOORY: So you're pretty
multifaceted, Fiona.
You do a lot of
different things.
You're an author.
>> HORNE: Yeah.
So I'm very proud of my books.
>> NOORY: How many
books out there now?
>> HORNE: Gosh, let
me hold up my books.
This is the latest one,
the young adult book.
My first work of fiction.
I felt very, very blessed
to get a book deal
at this time in the
publishing industry, when
things are changing so much.
>> NOORY: Very tough.
>> HORNE: And to get-- to
be able to write fiction
for a young adult
market was just--
it's actually a kind of
murder, mystery, love story.
Kind of like a maybe,
Nancy Drew meets Sabrina,
but she's cooler.
I don't now.
>> NOORY: Is there a movie here?
>> HORNE: Oh, who knows.
It's the first of three.
Anything could happen.
So that was a big thrill.
And then my last
nonfiction book before that
was "Bewitch a Man,"
which was a fun
book I did with
Simon and Schuster.
They had put out "He's
Just Not That Into You."
And I said, well, he's
just not that into you,
you want him anyway, do a spell.
So they liked that idea.
>> NOORY: Now tell me how
spells work, actually.
Are there spells for everything
you need to accomplish?
If you want a better job,
if you want a relationship,
if you want better health?
>> HORNE: There are definitely
spells and rituals you can do
that can assist in those things
manifesting in your life.
I always say, you've got
to act practically as well
as magically.
So you can't just sit in
your room doing spells
forever and ever and expect
everything to change.
Occasionally, your
perception of reality,
if it's triggered, if
it's shifted significantly
enough in a quiet,
private ritual
can actually affect
change outside you.
But you have to
do the work, too.
If you do a spell for
a new job, well, you've
got to go out there
for interviews.
But you ask for
guidance and for help
to get the best job, the
right job, the one that
has all the qualities and
characters that you want.
I mean, especially
with love, too.
I mean that's what
"Bewitch a Man"
that book was so about, you
know, finding the perfect love
or experiencing
the perfect love.
And I always say, well, the
first spell you've got to cast
is on yourself, so
you have self love.
And then when you've
got that kind of plugged
in and worked out,
then you can work
on manifesting
your ideal partner.
And
when we would cast
a spell, we wouldn't
pick a specific person.
We would say, they might
be-- they love travel,
they've got a great
sense of humor,
or maybe they are really
successful in finances,
or anything, or
they're a great chef
so they can cook me
dinner, or anything.
You pick what the
qualities, and then you
ask, God, the universe, whatever
to bring you that person that
embodies those qualities and
something else that maybe you
don't really know at the time
you need or would learn from.
And that's where the spells
can be really effective.
And in an every day sense
now, as being that I'm a,
I guess, yeah, I'm still
a practicing witch,
it's been a really long
time, a lot of my spell work
is more intuitive.
But every time I light a candle,
I say a prayer, or say a charm,
or whatever.
And I never blow candles
out, I snuff them,
because blowing them away
blows away the magic.
I mean, it's funny how I stir my
coffee in a sun-wise direction,
so in the northern
hemisphere it's to the right,
and in the southern
hemisphere it's to left.
>> NOORY: You go the other way.
>> HORNE: It's just, I just
naturally do these things.
Do they make my life better?
I feel that they do, you know.
So I'm plugged in to my life.
So yeah.
>> NOORY: It sounds like it's an
exercise in positive thinking.
Is it?
>> HORNE: I think so, yeah.
I think, life's not always easy.
There was a, again I
reference my books a lot,
but I feel it's a privilege to
put what I've learned in books.
There was one chapter
I wrote called
It Has to Be Dark
to See the Stars.
So, you know, in the
darkest, darkest night,
the brightest light will shine.
And even just recently, I had
like a very, very difficult
time in my personal life, very,
very sad and challenging time.
And you've got that choice.
Well, do I just go into the
dark and just fade away?
Or do I find a way to shine
in this dark, dark night?
And so it's a choice.
I choose to see this
dark night as a time
to shine, not a time
to be diminished.
And it's not always easy.
It's a day by day process,
one day at a time.
>> NOORY: Sure.
No, it isn't easy.
And there are some people,
you see these cases
where kids will go into
schools and shoot up.
And they must be so tormented
to do things like that.
And then they kill themselves.
>> HORNE: It's very sad.
It's just, you know, and
it's probably not the place
to talk about it in depth,
but at the same time,
I think wherever we
can as individuals,
not bow down to that
incredible negativity that
permeates our society now.
I like to just
try and find a way
to appreciate simple things.
And just take a
moment in meditation
to honor life and the privilege
that it is, to ask for peace
and ask for blessings for
those who are suffering.
And all that stuff really,
it does make a difference,
it really does.
>> NOORY: When you go out,
and people somehow hear that
you're a witch-- and I bet that
comes up in the conversation.
>> HORNE: Sometimes it does.
Sometimes people are
like, oh, this is Fiona.
She's a witch.
I'm like, amongst
other things but yeah.
>> NOORY: Does that
bother you sometimes?
I mean, did you get
pestered when you go out?
>> HORNE: Well, it depends
on the context, too.
It's a big weird in
aviation, because it's
a pretty conservative bunch.
So if someone, for
some weird reason,
Googled me for some reason and
sees all this stuff about me--
>> NOORY: And they probably did.
>> HORNE: Mm, sometimes.
>> NOORY: They do.
>> HORNE: If it gets around,
oh, she's been on TV,
or she's done something,
then, you know?
But again, it's just education.
I'm not going to
get all worked up.
And everyone has a right to
think what they want to think.
And if it's different
to what I think,
well, that's their prerogative.
>> NOORY: What has been, in
your witchcraft career and life,
the strangest event that's
ever happened to you?
>> HORNE: God.
Well, I was going to
say, that burning cross
is pretty strange.
>> NOORY: That's weird.
>> HORNE: The strangest?
>> NOORY: I mean, where
somebody came up to you,
and it was just weird,
the whole thing was weird.
>> HORNE: God, I was
thinking of a stalker I had.
That was pretty weird.
>> NOORY: You had a stalker?
>> HORNE: Oh, yeah.
Big time.
>> NOORY: He's back.
>> HORNE: It's been a while.
>> NOORY: He's in the
audience, did you know?
>> HORNE: Which one is he?
I'm psychic.
I should know who he is.
No, yeah that was a bit weird.
But that's just working in
the entertainment industry,
I think.
>> NOORY: That happens.
>> HORNE: And you're sort of
out there in the public eye.
>> NOORY: I've had my share.
>> HORNE: In any area where
you're sort of getting
attention, you
can, unfortunately,
get that experience.
I was lucky in that it didn't
get really, really, really bad.
It was definitely really
difficult for about a year
and a half.
But I'm still here.
He didn't kill me or anything.
>> NOORY: I have got
a house in St. Louis.
And I go back and forth
between Los Angeles
and now a little bit of
Denver, here, and Boulder,
in this area.
And I opened up my mail at
the network in LA one day,
and it was a package
of photographs
of a woman who took
pictures of herself
in front of my St. Louis house.
>> HORNE: Ouch, yeah.
>> NOORY: She's from
a different state.
And wrote down on
every photograph,
wouldn't I look good
living with you.
And I went, this is creepy.
>> HORNE: It is creepy.
>> NOORY: And we finally
had to put an end to that.
>> HORNE: The one I had
did a similar thing,
where they were sending
drawings they had done--
they were quite an
accomplished artist--
drawings they had
done to my publisher,
who was just thinking it was
fan mail and kept forwarding it
to my private address.
And I would open
it, and I started
to recognize the handwriting.
But the thing that
really was eerie to me
was, there was a cartoon.
And at the time I was
living in Australia still.
And my boyfriend at the
time played football.
He was a professional football--
>> NOORY: And football
to you is soccer, right?
>> HORNE: Aussie rules, mate.
Yeah.
Best game in the world.
But yeah, so he
had-- his number,
his jumper number was 7.
And so he had done this drawing
of my boyfriend with the 7
and me with a shopping trolley.
And we were at Woolley's,
which is a supermarket.
And some of the stuff in
the trolley was what I buy.
>> NOORY: He obviously saw this.
>> HORNE: He was there
in the supermarket.
That's what really
freaked me out.
>> NOORY: Ooh.
>> HORNE: You
know, that he was--
and I had a red sweater on.
>> NOORY: Cast a spell on him.
>> HORNE: Well, I did do some
spells for healing for him,
that he's find peace.
And feel that he could have
some kind of sense of not
needing to--
>> NOORY: Did it work?
>> HORNE: Well, it did
go away in the end.
But when I moved to
America, he was sending mail
to my publisher
here for a while.
>> NOORY: Still, he didn't stop.
>> HORNE: And then it and
it eventually faded out.
But I would always
ask for healing.
I tried not to come
from a place of fear,
because fear brings more fear.
>> NOORY: Yeah.
>> HORNE: That's why I jump
out of planes and stuff.
I was totally scared
to jump out of a plane.
>> NOORY: What was the
first jump like for you?
Were you petrified?
>> HORNE: Well, the
first was a tandem jump.
When I turned 40
my girlfriend said
that she wanted to take me
skydiving, jump out a plane.
And at the time
I had been single
for like three or four years.
I was miserable.
And I was like, yeah,
I don't care if I die.
Let's go.
>> NOORY: Let's go.
>> HORNE: Let's
jump out of a plane.
And actually, I did
it and I loved it.
And then I said, I'm going
to learn how to do this.
And that became a
real passion for me.
You've got to be
very focused on it.
>> NOORY: Sure.
>> HORNE: Especially
the first year.
And I think I did like 200
jumps in the first year,
as you just get familiar with
it and develop your skills.
And you know, I love it.
It's such a great environment,
a great community.
We don't have a
death wish, at all.
Some might be described
as adrenalin junkies.
Some of us-- I love
the peace of it.
I just love being--
I'll jump alone.
I love jumping with
groups, but I'll
jump alone and just
experience the sensation
of how extraordinary
life can be.
You can always get
out of your own box.
>> NOORY: Right, Did you have
to get pushed the first time?
>> HORNE: No, no.
I was strapped to someone
in the tandem jump.
And then you go through the AFF
course, the Accelerated Free
Fall course, which
is seven levels.
>> NOORY: Who packed your chute?
>> HORNE: I paid
someone $6 to do it.
But you have to--
>> NOORY: I would have paid
them a little more than $6.
>> HORNE: You have to
demonstrate that you can pack
a chute.
But when you actually
get the packing done,
you can pay someone
else to do it.
I don't know.
It's not rocket science, you've
just got to do it properly.
>> NOORY: Who would like to
pay, the lowest paid guy,
or the highest paid one?
>> HORNE: Well, I'll you
what, it doesn't matter.
I was paying someone
that charges a bit more,
and I tip him, as well.
And I had my first cut away in
October, just a few months ago.
Jumped, it's like
[IMITATING  STRONG WIND] uh-oh,
nothing's happening.
Oh, gosh, is this,
this is going,
this, I think this could be it.
This is like my 648th
jump or something.
And I'm like, oh,
wow, it's not opening.
>> NOORY: Because
that does happen.
>> HORNE: Yeah.
And I looked up and my canopy
was just this tangled mess.
And I was like,
alright, I got to chop.
And so I chopped, cut away.
I opened the reserve.
The reserve popped out, and it
was beautiful, there, working.
And I was like wow.
And I kind of got
used to how different
it felt, because the rig is
sitting differently on you,
being that it's a reserve.
I un-stored the toggles.
They were kind of really
stiff, because they
hadn't-- it's the
first ride, you know.
It hadn't been flown before.
And I flew over to where
my canopy was still
floating in the air.
And it was all mashed
up and tangled.
Massive line over malfunction.
And then I landed.
And it was a great story.
>> NOORY: It was a great story.
>> HORNE: You know, I was
the talk of the drop zone.
And that was that.
>> NOORY: Perfect.
>> HORNE: And onwards you go.
Because we have three kind
of lifesaving devices.
Obviously, the
first main canopy.
We have a reserve canopy,
which is the one I opened.
And then there's an AAD.
Most rigs now have an
Automatic Activation Device,
and it sits in the nape
of your neck, here.
And then that way, if like,
say, you hit the plane
as you were leaving the
plane, or someone kicked you
in free fall and you
were knocked unconscious,
that would still fire your
reserve at around 700 feet.
>> NOORY: Fail safe systems.
>> HORNE: So you've got three
chances to save your life when
you jump out of a plane.
>> NOORY: Let's take some
more questions for you, Fiona.
OK, how about
somebody over here?
Who's got a question for
the witch, Fiona Horne?
>> AUDIENCE: I was wondering,
where do wizards fit
in to your modalities?
>> NOORY: Wizards.
>> HORNE: Wizards, yeah,
that's such a great question.
Well, wizards, in the spiritual
path of modern witchcraft,
there are no wizards.
It's witches, men and
women are witches.
So there's no warlocks, either.
That's all words.
The wizard, to me, how I
experience a wizard, and even
in my tarot deck I have
a card, the magician,
which I kind of relate
to as the wizard.
It's like the alchemist, someone
that can transform things.
But generally,
wizard is a term used
in the entertainment culture
of witchcraft and magic,
not in real life.
>> NOORY: The wizards.
>> HORNE: But you can
be a wizard if you want.
I'm presuming it has
to be a bloke, though.
Has anyone ever heard
of a female wizard?
No.
>> NOORY: No, I don't think so.
What are the guys called?
Warlocks?
>> HORNE: Witches.
There's no term warlock in our--
>> NOORY: "Bewitched" did
that to us, didn't they?
>> HORNE: Yeah.
>> NOORY: Do you
wiggle your nose?
>> HORNE: No.
>> NOORY: You don't do that?
>> HORNE: Except when
I'm about to sneeze.
>> NOORY: Well, you know, a show
like that was probably great
for getting the word out
about witches, wasn't it?
>> HORNE: Well, it inspired
me when I was a kid.
I used to come home from
school to watch "Bewitched."
I just loved the idea that
there were these cool women that
could do crazy cool things.
And I liked Sabrina.
I like the naughty
witch, Samantha's cousin.
I wasn't into-- I thought,
if I was Samantha,
and I was a powerful witch, I
wouldn't like Darren boss me
around like that.
>> NOORY: That's right.
Only in those days,
women got bossed around.
>> HORNE: Yeah, it was
part of the culture.
Yeah.
But I loved the
imagery, that Endora
with all her, oh, darling,
fantastic, flamboyant
mannerisms and carry on.
>> NOORY: Agnes
Moorehead, I think.
>> HORNE: Yeah, Agnes
Moorehead is amazing.
>> NOORY: Classics.
>> HORNE: But it's a great
point that you bring up.
Like the witches portrayed
in the world of entertainment
can be really inspiring
and exciting and fun.
Or it can be scary.
It just depends.
>> NOORY: Absolutely.
And a lot of young people love
some of those kinds of movies.
They love the vampire
movies, the witches movies,
and everything else.
How about another
question for Fiona?
Yes.
>> AUDIENCE: Years ago, I had
read some books by Sybil Leek
and really enjoyed those.
I was wondering, who
were your role models?
And other than the TV
shows, who did you read
and who helped you
with your craft?
>> HORNE: Definitely Sybil Leek.
Definitely a huge
fan of her writings.
The very first book I ever
bought, or was discovered,
I guess, because I
felt I was led to it
was called "Way of the
Goddess" by Lady Angeles.
And she's a which in
Australia, that I,
a few years after reading her
book, I was privileged to meet.
And an extraordinary woman.
A wise woman.
And still, I consider
a mentor in her work.
I mean, we're not
as close in touch,
because I'm obviously
not in Australia.
But I keep an eye on what
she's doing on the internet.
And also Starhawk,
"Spiral Dance," classic.
I mean, you know, that
book is just so amazing.
I love Scott Cunningham's books
about "Magical Herbalism,"
or magical herbs, as
we say in America.
And Raymond Buckland,
another author.
Gerald Gardner, of course,
because of the early writings
on witchcraft.
And I enjoyed, it
was Alex Sanders.
Didn't they, he
and Maxine wrote,
no, it was Gavin and Janet
Farrar, that's right,
it was Stewart and Janet
who wrote "What Withes Do."
So a lot of those older
texts I was very inspired by.
And I love some of
the newer stuff.
When I first got into it, it
was very-- like in Australia,
no one talked about it.
I mean, for me to
find a book about it,
I had to kind of burrow
through a market stall
and find this-- the
very first book I got
was actually "The Sixth Sense
and Us" by Justine Glass.
And it was in a market.
And I had no idea.
And it was publish in like 1963.
So a lot of that stuff,
early stuff I was reading
was old stuff like that.
And there was also a
self-published book,
or they was a zine,
actually, called "Shadowplay"
that was edited by
Bill Beatty and Rhea.
And again, it was
all very underground.
And then as I kind of got--
it's been-- I mean, I'm 46 now.
I was getting into this
stuff when I was 18.
It's been a long
time, in linear time.
So I'm always excited to
read new material by people.
And as I kind of, you know, I'm
working on another book now.
And I can see how much my
personal practice of the craft
and perception of
the craft has changed
over more than a
quarter century.
So it's always growing,
evolving, and changing.
>> NOORY: I love those
old books, Fiona,
those old books on witchcraft.
I mean, you open it up and they
just feel spooky on the inside.
>> HORNE: Well,
it's spooky inside.
I love the wisdom and
the history of it.
And also, it's very
interesting to see how the way
we use words differently.
I also collect dictionaries.
I love dictionaries.
People say, what's
your favorite book?
I say the dictionary.
You know, it's just
it's so fascinating.
And I collect them.
I've got some, a
couple of new ones
I got from 1946 that I like.
Just so interesting to see how
words change and their usages
change in modern society.
>> NOORY: You said you
read the tarot cards.
>> HORNE: Yes.
>> NOORY: What's
that death card like?
>> HORNE: Ah, death card?
Well, it just means
transformation, rebirth.
It rarely literally means death.
It always depends on where, you
know, the combination of cards
and where they're
placed in a spread
and how I'm interpreting them.
But yeah, death, generally,
I see as rebirth, change.
It could mean-- the tower
card is the one that's gnarly.
That's destruction and
chaos and calamity.
I've had that a few times
in the last few months--
last 12 months.
But you know, at every
ending is another beginning.
>> NOORY: When you do the
tarot cards with an individual,
do they pick the card,
or do you pick the card?
>> HORNE: I generally
have them do it.
I'll have them shuffle
the card into three piles,
the cards into three piles,
put them back together,
and then I throw.
But I do a lot of, I actually
read tarot and do consulting.
It's part of my work, I guess.
I help others with that insight.
And I have a lot of clients
on the phone or over Skype.
I mean, the blessings
of the internet.
When I started in the craft,
there was no internet.
Or its was going at
like one megabyte.
I mean, one, what
is it, kilobyte.
Those little tiny kilobytes.
One kilobyte per hour, type
speed, it was really slow.
But now, with the
internet, you can
have clients like
Skyping and on the phone.
And so I have clients
all over the world.
And in that case, I
would shuffle for them.
And it doesn't really
make too much difference.
Its energy.
It's just getting
out of your own way
and letting, I guess, the
veils between the world's part,
and finding out what
you need to find out.
I always see it as guidance.
I usually, what
I'll say, quickly,
is when I read for
someone, I say,
consider me a bit
like a meteorologist.
I'm going to look
at the high pressure
system, the low pressure system,
the cold front, the warm front,
and tell you whether it's likely
going to rain in your life
tomorrow, whether
you need an umbrella.
And of course, that can
change, everything does.
I never claimed to
be 100% accurate.
But I say, I'm usually more
accurate than the weather
report.
And so yeah, it's
picking up on energies.
And I mean, I've
had this same deck
of cards for over 25 years.
I read that same deck.
And it's so old
and rubbed off, you
can barely see the
pictures anymore.
But I still get the reading
I need to help the client.
>> NOORY: You are a good witch.
There's no evil
about you, at all.
>> HORNE: No.
>> NOORY: No, none.
So what did you bring us here?
>> HORNE: Well, this is
a basic witch's altar.
We were talking a little
earlier in the show
about what you put on an altar.
And I was talking
about the four elements
of air, earth, fire, and water.
Now depending on how
structured you want to be,
there can be very specific
ways of placing them
in certain compass points,
north, south, east, and west.
But I've always said
to people, sometimes
people use all the
particular stuff
as being a way to
procrastinate and not
actually get anything done.
And usually with
modern witchcraft,
you just want to get started.
You want to get into it.
So I always say, when
you cast a circle,
it's kind of set
outside of time.
You cast circle as
sacred space that
exists outside of linear time.
There's no past, present,
or future in it, it just is.
It just is everything.
And in that case,
it doesn't really
need to be structured
with the north, south,
east, and west orientation.
Just get it going.
And understand that there are
these four sacred elements.
The fifth, you could
consider as spirit,
your presence in the circle.
So these four things
are represented here.
Water, obviously,
in this bowl here,
with the shell in it,
representing the ocean.
There's a little salt in there.
It's honoring the ocean.
>> NOORY: Can I touch it?
>> HORNE: Yeah, you can.
>> NOORY: Will
anything happen to me?
>> HORNE: No.
Well, good stuff.
I've had this
actual bowl was made
by my dear girlfriend,
Wendy Hanham.
She's a glass blower,
and she set it
in this beautiful
stand of rose thorns.
And that is, she gave that to
me when I was in my early 20's.
So it's over 20 years
old, it's travel
around the world with me.
And it's here, today, in the
Gaiam TV studios with you.
So that represents water.
A lot of my staff
has kind of-- what's
the word when something is old
and it has that lovely energy?
I'm blanking on the word--
but you know what I mean.
It's just got that
lovely sense of memory.
This altar cloth here, you
can see it's a bit tattered.
It's got holes in it.
But it's my original
altar cloth from...
I don't know.
I've had that since
I was a teenager.
And I keep it, and I usually
wrap my tarot cards in it.
But I just I keep it
clean, I gently wash it.
But it has that sort of that
energy of memory and presence.
Fire is represented by
the candle, obviously.
So that's another
sacred element.
We have earth
represented by crystals.
I have this amethyst crystal.
And this actually is a
piece of petrified fruit
from Mount Warning, which is
the sacred aboriginal site
in Australia.
It's the highest mountain
on the East Coast.
So it's the first place
to see the sun rise.
And it's just--
>> NOORY: This is
hard as a rock.
>> HORNE: Yeah.
So I consider it the
element of earth.
It was brought up
from the earth.
But it's petrified fruit.
And the Australian aborigines
used to see Mount Warning,
and see all the thunderstorms
up there, and the lightening,
because it was so high.
And they would think that the
warrior gods were fighting up
there.
So it's a very sacred space.
And I was able to procure this
petrified fruit from up there.
So that represents earth.
Again, it's travel
around the world with me
for many, many years.
I've had that for
20 years, as well.
And we also have the
element of air represented
by incense, which
it's going out a bit.
So incense can represent
the element or air,
or even like a feather,
something like that.
>> NOORY: So that's
what I smell, right?
>> HORNE: Yeah,
it's nice, isn't it?
It's pinon.
>> NOORY: Getting a
little high, here.
>> HORNE: Well, I'm
actually a sober witch.
You bring up a good point.
I don't drink and I don't
do drugs, I'm sober.
>> NOORY: Good.
>> HORNE: And I consider
that a spiritual calling.
So I have really refined
my spiritual practice
to embrace my sobriety in
a way that is, I think,
really rewarding and it allows
me to be a better person.
And also-- I promise you,
there's no drugs in it.
And also just more--
sometimes people
think you've got
to get out of it
to have a transcendental
experience.
The more sober I am, the
more out of it I feel.
Life's extraordinary.
>> NOORY: You lose control.
>> HORNE: Yeah.
I just, I love being out to
have a tangible experience
of the beautiful
sacredness of life.
And it's so much
more intense when
it's not diluted by
drugs or alcohol.
The other thing I have
here is the pentagram.
It's a five pointed
start on a disk.
This was given to me, actually.
He used to be-- I
think he called himself
a wizard, funnily enough, to
the lady in the audience that
asked that question.
But he gave me this necklace.
And I just love it because
it's the pentagram.
>> NOORY: It looks heavy.
>> HORNE: It's not too heavy.
But I keep that on the altar as
a symbol of the four elements
involving spirit, as well,
the five-pointed star.
So that's there.
And then this I love too.
I feel very blessed.
This was a gift.
A couple of gorgeous
witches made this for me.
And it's a wand with
this beautiful smoky
quartz crystal on
the end, a dragon
because I have a dragon
tattooed on my arm, up here.
I had that a long time ago.
And that represents the
four elements, as well.
But I love the
symbolism of the dragon.
And so they put this
dragon around the wand.
And then they put me on, with
my wings and my-- because I'm
a scuba diver, I
love spending time
in the ocean-- they put
things fins on my feet,
wings on my back, and a
snake-- my snake, Lulu,
she's in Australia
now-- on my arm.
So that's my wand.
See, they're fun.
It doesn't have to be--
I've got an athame as well,
a double-bladed knife.
>> NOORY: Cast a spell on us.
>> HORNE: But I wanted
to bring my wand.
So that's for casting circle
and channeling energy and using
it to transform and create.
And then the other thing,
I'll show you really quickly,
because we were talking about
it before, my good old trusty
tarot cards.
Like, I don't know if
you can see on camera,
but these are really,
they are really old.
Can you see?
>> NOORY: They look ancient.
>> HORNE: Yeah, over 25 years.
Give them a quick shuffle.
Let's get a quick read on you.
Three card draw.
>> NOORY: Will they
help me in Blackjack?
That's the question.
>> HORNE: Let's see how good you
can shuffle them to tell-- oh,
hang on.
You're flipping them already.
Because you can't see the image.
There you go.
Flip them that way.
>> NOORY: OK.
>> HORNE: If you
can shuffle good,
we'll know you're
a good gambler.
He's not too bad.
>> NOORY: Not bad.
>> HORNE: OK.
Cut them into three.
>> NOORY: All right.
>> HORNE: Nice, all right.
I'm going to do a
three card split.
>> NOORY: There we go.
>> HORNE: Oh, wheel of fortune.
>> NOORY: Uh, huh.
>> HORNE: That means a
big win ahead for you.
That doesn't suck.
All right, nice.
Oh, and how interesting.
So you've got the
wheel of fortune.
>> NOORY: OK.
>> HORNE: You've got the seven
of coins, which is about--
it can generally mean a little
bit of an imbalance in money.
So if we're talking
about gambling,
it's meaning exercising caution
in your gambling efforts.
But you are blessed by
the wheel of fortune.
And then you'll final
card is temperance,
which means avoid excesses
of food and alcohol.
We were talking about sobriety.
So don't be drunk
when you gamble
and you can expect a good win.
>> NOORY: I don't drink
a lot or eat a lot.
So good.
But it's a warning, right?
>> HORNE: It's a warning, don't
be drunk when you're gambling.
>> NOORY: Perfect.
>> HORNE: And then
you'll do all right.
>> NOORY: That's right.
So can you do a little
spell on the audience?
>> HORNE: Yes, well,
with the audience.
>> NOORY: What would you
like to do with the audience,
all right.
>> HORNE: Yes, if
they would like to.
Because it's something
that, again, it
has to be consented
to and free will.
So it can either--
I guess, are we
keeping everyone in their seats?
Yeah?
>> NOORY: Let's do that.
>> HORNE: OK.
So are you all into it?
It's very benign.
We got some thumbs up.
I like that.
>> NOORY: All right,
they're ready for us.
>> HORNE: Yeah, so what we're
going to do with the spell,
and again, it's with not on.
So I think for the
purposes of this,
we can do it like we're going
to create a sacred space.
So I'm going to say a few things
and wave my arms around a bit
and do some stuff like that.
And then we're
going to-- I'm going
to ask you to visualize white
light forming around us.
I'll say it in the ritual.
And then we're going to think
about something we really want
and come up with one word.
So start thinking
about that now:
one word that describes
something that you feel
would really enhance your life.
Or maybe if you know someone
who is in pain or suffering,
one word that describes
what they're going through
and how you would like
them to be healed.
It can be someone's name even.
But just one word.
And what we're
going to do is we're
going to raise power
in the sacred circle.
And at a point, I'm going to
get you to call out that word.
And we're going to send all that
good positive transformative
energy into that situation
represented by the word.
Does that sound OK?
>> NOORY: Perfect.
>> HORNE: Yes?
>> NOORY: Let's do it.
>> HORNE: All right,
shall we do it?
Can I stand up?
Am I allowed to move around?
>> NOORY: Absolutely.
>> HORNE: Okee doke.
So I'm going to just get
the incense going again.
And you're going to have
to get a bit loud with me.
So we're going to transform this
studio from a quiet, reflective
space into something
a bit ruckus.
Because, when in witchcraft
we raise power in circle,
it means we kind of want to
build some energy up, you know?
All right.
So I'm going to use
my fabulous wand.
So everyone close
your eyes for a minute
and take a few deep breaths.
And just have both your feet
planted firmly on the floor.
OK.
We're in a studio with
concrete and cement and all
that good stuff, but
I want you visualize
plugging in to a sense of
earth underneath our feet.
A beautiful sense of
solid, reliable earth,
strong earth that
grounds us and anchors us
in the physical realm.
So take a nice deep breath in
and draw in that earth energy.
And now, at the same time, I
want you to consider or think
about the top of
your head and feel
that it's like opening
up to receive abundance.
And it's plugging into that
energy of the sky and all
the space that our
Earth is suspended in.
And now when you
have that connection
with your head opened up,
receiving abundance, love,
and enlightenment, and your
feet anchored and solid
and grounded in
the earth, I want
you to visualize a sphere of
white light forming around us,
above and below
us, to our sides.
It's like a big
egg-shaped sphere even.
And we're circled in
this beautiful space.
And I'm going to cast circle.
I conjure thee,
circle, so that you
may be a boundary
between the realms
of the everyday and
the eternal planes.
A space of joy, peace,
enlightenment, transformation.
The circle is bound and blessed.
So mote it be.
So visualize that
lovely energy around us.
And then in this space
I'm going to just honor
the four elements.
So we're going to honor the
element of air in the east.
And I'm just tracing a
pentagram with the air.
Again, this sacred
symbol of enlightenment,
the five-pointed star.
And I honor earth in the north.
I honor water in the west.
This big heavy candle--
and fire in the south.
The circle is bound and
blessed by the four elements.
And we have their transformative
powers with us in this space.
So now I'd like you to think
of one word that describes--
if you've already thought of it,
that's awesome, hang onto it.
I'm going to think of one.
And again, we're thinking
about transforming,
because we're going to raise
energy in circle in a minute.
We're going to get
loud, and we're
going to move
around a little bit.
And we're going to think
about this energy bubbling up
inside our sacred space.
And at a point, we're
going to release it out
into the rest of the world.
Because we've actually
created a space
set outside of time now, in
this sacred space that we're in.
So we're going to
think about letting
the transformative energy
be released and transform
a situation that's represented
by our sacred word.
So we, again, we all
have a sacred word?
We're all good?
Excellent.
OK.
So how do we want
to raise energy?
I think we might stamp our
feet and clap our hands.
Again, remembering that
we're building energy up.
And our bodies are
tactile, tangible things
that can create and
transform, as well.
So why don't we start
by stamping our feet
and clapping our hands?
And really picture this
energy building up.
More and more.
Think about your sacred word.
And when you're ready, I want
you to throw your hands up
in the air and scream
that word to the skies.
One, two, three, healing.
And the circle is
open, but unbroken.
Carried within our hearts.
And if you'd like to place
your hands over your heart
right now and just take
a nice deep breath in.
For the good of all, with harm
to none, the magic has begun.
So mote it be.
Thank you, everyone.
>> NOORY: Thank you, Fiona.
>> HORNE: That was really good.
I thought you guys were awesome.
I could feel the energy then.
>> NOORY: I could feel it.
I could feel it.
So I'm going to ask you,
can you make me disappear?
>> HORNE: Goodness, gracious.
That's one of the
hardest spells.
But being that I am
a practiced witch,
I think I could manage it.
All right, give it a try.
All right.
Well, I need everyone in the
audience to help me again.
So let's just take
a deep breath.
And I'm going to
need you to call out
George disappear with
me, I need your help.
Otherwise, it's just
not going to work.
OK.
So a nice deep breath.
And when I snap my fingers, call
out with me, George disappear.
OK?
One, two, three,
George disappear.
>> NOORY: Hey, where am I?
What happened?
Oh well, thanks for
watching "Beyond Belief"
with Fiona Horne.
She really is a witch.
[APPLAUSE]
[THEME MUSIC]